Add roles & rituals (#6)
AppSecure-nrw/security-belts: README.md

## Introduction

> Due to the increasing requirements on the security of software products and new evolving development methodologies, development teams have to take much more responsibility for the software security of their product. However, as recent studies and security incidents indicate, development teams are overwhelmed with this duty. The typical main reasons are that the teams not have sufficient awareness and knowledege concerning software security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the increasing requirements on the security of software products and new evolving development methodologies, development teams have to take much more responsibility for the software security of their product. However, as recent studies and security incidents indicate, development teams are overwhelmed with this duty. The typical main reasons are that the teams do not have sufficient awareness and knowledge concerning software security.
```

Reviewer: improved English

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to the increasing requirements on the security of software products and new evolving development methodologies, development teams have to take much more responsibility for the software security of their products. However, as recent studies and security incidents indicate, development teams are overwhelmed with this duty. The typical main reasons are that the teams not have sufficient awareness and knowledege concerning software security.
```

> The maturity model *Security Belts* pursues the idea of providing development teams reasonable activities to improve software security without overwhelming them with the complexity of the topic. The maturity model conveys values that are based on [The Five Ideals Of DevOps](https://itrevolution.com/five-ideals-of-devops/), which we believe are essential to successfully deliver secure software. In the maturity model, the individual degrees of maturity are represented as belts, which are known from various martial arts such as judo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The maturity model *Security Belts* pursues the idea of providing development teams reasonable activities to improve software security without overwhelming them with the complexity of the topic. The maturity model conveys values that are based on [The Five Ideals Of DevOps](https://itrevolution.com/five-ideals-of-devops/), which we believe are essential to successfully deliver secure software products. In the maturity model, the individual degrees of maturity are represented as belts, which are known from various martial arts such as judo.
```

## Belt Activities

The belt activities serve as a checklist for the team and give additional information to accomplish these activities. In particular, they consist of:
- a brief task description for the team,
- a list of further readings to learn more about this topic,
- references to related activities (if necessary),
- the benefits of this activity, and
- a checklist for the assessment of the belt.

## Roles

> Security Belts depends on the existence of several roles from the Agile methodology such as Developer and Product Owner (PO). Developers, PO, and optionally a scrum master, form the so-called *team*. 

Reviewer: As these are roles like the Security Champion, I thought we have to use capital letters. But we can also use normal letters.

> Security Belts depends on the existence of several roles from the Agile methodology such as Developer and Product Owner (PO). Developers, PO, and optionally a scrum master, form the so-called *team*. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Security Belts depends on the existence of several roles from the Agile methodology such as developer and product owner. Developers, product owner, and optionally a scrum master, form the so-called *team*. 
```

### Security Champion

> The maturity model Security Belts adds the role of the Security Champion to the Agile methodology. The Security Champion is a developer, who is also part of the team. He/she has a profound security knowledge but is not necessarily a security expert. The Security Champion empowers the team such that they can ensure the security of their software products by themselves. Moreover, he/she enables the team to improve themselves concerning software security and raises the importance of security within the team (incl. PO) as well as towards the management.

Reviewer: No, we should make this consistent.

> The maturity model Security Belts adds the role of the Security Champion to the Agile methodology. The Security Champion is a developer, who is also part of the team. He/she has a profound security knowledge but is not necessarily a security expert. The Security Champion empowers the team such that they can ensure the security of their software products by themselves. Moreover, he/she enables the team to improve themselves concerning software security and raises the importance of security within the team (incl. PO) as well as towards the management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The maturity model Security Belts adds the role of the Security Champion to the Agile methodology. The Security Champion is a developer, who is also part of the team. He/she has a profound security knowledge but is not necessarily a security expert. The Security Champion empowers the team such that they can ensure the security of their software products by themselves. Moreover, he/she enables the team to improve themselves concerning software security and raises the importance of security within the team (developers and product owner) as well as towards the management.
```

> The maturity model Security Belts adds the role of the Security Champion to the Agile methodology. The Security Champion is a developer, who is also part of the team. He/she has a profound security knowledge but is not necessarily a security expert. The Security Champion empowers the team such that they can ensure the security of their software products by themselves. Moreover, he/she enables the team to improve themselves concerning software security and raises the importance of security within the team (developers and product owner) as well as towards the management.

Reviewer 3: I don't like the he/she, maybe we can just use bullet points and thus do not need to start each sentence with "The security champion"?
```suggestion
The maturity model Security Belts adds the role of the Security Champion to the Agile methodology. The Security Champion ...
  - is a developer, who is also part of the team.
  - has profound security knowledge but is not necessarily a security expert.
  - empowers the team such that they can ensure the security of their software products by themselves.
  - enables the team to improve themselves concerning software security and raises the importance of security within the team (developers and product owner) as well as towards the management.
```
Maybe the next point about the training could be added as well

Security Champions must attend a thorough training. They need an overview of the complete security development lifecycle (SDLC), theoretical background, 
practical knowledge, and the necessary soft skills to fulfill its role. Examplary trainings are: 

> <!--
> - [Fraunhofer IEM - Security Champion Training](https://www.iem.fraunhofer.de/de/academy/schulungsangebot/security-champion-training.html)
> - TODO
> -->

Author: ```suggestion
- [Fraunhofer IEM - Security Champion Training](https://www.iem.fraunhofer.de/de/academy/schulungsangebot/security-champion-training.html)
```

### Security Champion Guild

The Security Champion Guild is a guild as known from the [Spotify model](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/agile-at-scale/spotify). Security Champions participate to get feedback on security-related topics from outside their teams such as individual questions, second opinions, and code/concept reviews.

The main task of the guild is to spread the Security Belts in the organization. The guild conducts belt assessments and actively improves the maturity model.

> All Security Champions and only these are part of the guild. Otherwise, the champions would not learn from each other and the quality of the guild's outcome is at risk as Security Champions have a dedicated training, which other developers have not. If a central security department exists within the company, then the guild and this department should collaborate.

Reviewer: Which one do you prefer?

> All Security Champions and only these are part of the guild. Otherwise, the champions would not learn from each other and the quality of the guild's outcome is at risk as Security Champions have a dedicated training, which other developers have not. If a central security department exists within the company, then the guild and this department should collaborate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All Security Champions and only these are part of the guild. Otherwise, the champions would not learn from each other and the quality of the guild's outcome is at risk as Security Champions have a dedicated training, which other developers have not. If a central security department exists within the company, then the guild and this department need to collaborate.
```

## Rituals

> The Security Belts define a list of rituals that shall be held such that the goals of our model can be accomplished. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Security Belts define the following list of rituals that shall be held such that the goals of our model can be accomplished. 
```

### Weekly Review

The Security Champion Guild organizes a review every week with one representative of each team working on achieving a Security Belt. If the team does not have a Security Champion yet, then the representative does not have to be a Security Champion.

> The weekly is set up like a daily standup in Scrum, where everyone presents the progress of their implementation of the Security Belt activity they currently working on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The weekly is set up like a daily standup in Scrum. Everyone presents the progress of their implementation of the Security Belt activity they are currently working on.
```

This meeting allows teams to get early feedback and to give the Security Champion Guild transparency about the progress the teams are making with their Security Belts.

### Belt Assessment

There is an assessment for each security belt to ensure that the team has performed the required activities and, thus, has matured concerning software security. 

> The team has to request the assessment through the guild. Since the Security Belts are intended to empower a team, not only the Security Champion but the whole team has to attend to the assessment. The guild then organizes the assessors. There should be at least two Security Champions that already achieved the Security Belt that the assessment is about. If there are not enough suitable assessors, the whole guild and additional security experts of the organization attend the assessment and function as assessors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The team has to request the assessment through the guild. Since the Security Belts are intended to empower a team and not only the Security Champion, the whole team has to attend to the assessment. The guild organizes the assessors. There should be at least two Security Champions that already achieved the Security Belt that the assessment is about. If there are not enough suitable assessors, the whole guild and additional security experts of the organization attend the assessment and function as assessors.
```

> The team has to request the assessment through the guild. Since the Security Belts are intended to empower a team and not only the Security Champion, the whole team has to attend to the assessment. The guild organizes the assessors. There should be at least two Security Champions that already achieved the Security Belt that the assessment is about. If there are not enough suitable assessors, the whole guild and additional security experts of the organization attend the assessment and function as assessors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The team has to request the assessment through the guild. Since the Security Belts are intended to empower a team and not only the Security Champion, the whole team has to attend the assessment. The guild organizes the assessors. There should be at least two Security Champions that already achieved the Security Belt that the assessment is about. If there are not enough suitable assessors, the whole guild and additional security experts of the organization attend the assessment and function as assessors.
```

If the assessment is passed, the belt is awarded to the team by the assessors. Do not forget to celebrate with the team and the guild.
<!-- Optionally, the guild can buy real judo belts and hand them over to the teams. -->

### Yearly Refresh

Over time, teams are changing: members join and leave and the priority of the teams' work, as well as the security requirements of their product, may vary. Consequently, the guild should regularly check whether the team is still actively applying the activities of a Security Belt.

The Security Champion Guild performs a refresh meeting every year for each team that achieved a Security Belt. At least two members of a team are invited together with two Security Champions (the assessors), which also achieved the belt under assessment. If there are no suitable candidates, proceed in the same manner as during the belt assessment.

> In the refresh meeting, all belt activities - from all achieved security belts - are tested whether the team is still applying it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the refresh meeting, all belt activities - from all achieved Security Belts - are tested whether the team is still applying it.
```

- If all activities are still performed, celebrate this with the team and the guild.

> - If some activities are no more performed, the team has to revive the activity and prove it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If some activities are not performed anymore, the team has to revive the activity and assess it again.
```

> - If most of the activities are not performed anymore, the team loses the corresponding security belts and has to execute all fail belt activities again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If most of the activities are not performed anymore, the team loses the corresponding Security Belts. It has to execute all failed belt activities again, in order to reassess the lost Security Belts.
```

- references to related activities (if necessary),
- the benefits of this activity, and
- a checklist for the assessment of the belt.

## Roles

Security Belts depends on the existence of several roles from the Agile methodology such as developer and product owner. Developers, product owner, and optionally a scrum master, form the so-called *team*. 

### Security Champion

The maturity model Security Belts adds the role of the Security Champion to the Agile methodology. The Security Champion ...
  - is a developer, who is also part of the team.
  - has profound security knowledge but is not necessarily a security expert.
  - empowers the team such that they can ensure the security of their software products by themselves.
  - enables the team to improve themselves concerning software security and raises the importance of security within the team (developers and product owner) as well as towards the management.

Security Champions must attend a thorough training. They need an overview of the complete security development lifecycle (SDLC), theoretical background, 
practical knowledge, and the necessary soft skills to fulfill its role. Examplary trainings are: 

> - [Fraunhofer IEM - Security Champion Training](https://www.iem.fraunhofer.de/de/academy/schulungsangebot/security-champion-training.html)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Fraunhofer IEM - Security Champion Training](https://www.iem.fraunhofer.de/de/academy/schulungsangebot/security-champion-training.html)
- *suggestions welcome*
```
